ELIXIR TEAM TRADEMARKS POLICY

This document outlines the policy for allowed usage of the “Elixir” word and the
Elixir logo by other parties.

“Elixir” and the Elixir logo are registered trademarks of the Elixir Team. The
Elixir Team believes in a decentralized approach to growing the community and
the ecosystem, independent of the Elixir project and the Elixir Team.

Anyone can use the Elixir trademarks if that use of the trademark is nominative.
The trademarks must not be used to disparage the project and its community, nor
be used in any way to imply ownership, endorsement, or association with the
Elixir project and the Elixir Team.

You must not visually combine the Elixir logo with any other images, or change
the logo in any way other than ways required by printing restrictions. If you
want to create your own visual identity in relation to Elixir, you might use the
shape of an unrelated “water drop” as part of your design, as seen in many
community projects and initiatives. You must not combine or modify the Elixir
logo.

The Elixir logo is available in our repository in both vertical and horizontal
versions.

Nominative use
The “nominative use” (or “nominative fair use”) is a legal doctrine that
authorizes everyone (even commercial companies) to use or refer to the trademark
of another if:

The product or service in question must be one not readily identifiable without
use of the trademark.

Only so much of the mark or marks may be used as is reasonably necessary to
identify the product or service.

The organization using the mark must do nothing that would, in conjunction with
the mark, suggest sponsorship or endorsement by the trademark holder.

Our trademarks must be used to refer to the Elixir programming language.

Examples of permitted use
All examples listed next must strictly adhere to the terms outlined in the
previous sections:

Usage of the Elixir logo to say a technology is “powered by Elixir” under
nominative use. Linking back to the Elixir website, if possible, is appreciated.

Usage of the Elixir logo to display it as a supported technology in a service or
platform. For instance, you may say “we support Elixir” and use the Elixir logo,
but you may not refer to yourself as “the Elixir platform” nor imply any form of
endorsement or association with Elixir.

Usage of the Elixir logo in non-commercial community meetups, in presentations,
and in courses when referring to the language and its ecosystem under nominative
use.

Usage of the Elixir logo in non-commercial swag (stickers, t-shirts, mugs, etc)
to promote the Elixir programming language. The Elixir marks must be the only
marks featured in the product. You need permission to make swag that include
Elixir and other third party marks in them.

Inclusion of the Elixir logo in non-commercial icon sets. Use of the Elixir
icons must still adhere to Elixir’s trademark policies.

Usage of the “Elixir” word in book titles, meetups, conferences, and podcasts.
You must not use the word to imply uniqueness or endorsement from the Elixir
team. “The Elixir book” and “The Elixir podcast” are not permitted.
“Elixir in Action”, “Thinking Elixir”, and “Kraków Elixir User Group” are valid
examples already in use today.

Usage of the “Elixir” word in the names of freely distributed software and
hardware products is allowed when referring to use with or suitability for the
Elixir programming language, such as wxElixir, Elixirsense, etc. If the product
includes the Elixir programming language itself, then you must also respect its
license.

Examples of not permitted use
Here is a non-exhaustive list of non permitted uses of the marks:

Usage of the Elixir logo in book covers, conferences, and podcasts.

Usage of the Elixir logo as the mark of third party projects, even in combination
with other marks.

Naming any company or product after Elixir, such as “The Elixir Hosting”,
“The Elixir Consultants”, etc.

Examples that require permission
Here are some examples that may be granted permission upon request:

Selling merchandise (stickers, t-shirts, mugs, etc).
You can request permission by emailing trademarks@elixir-lang.org.

Important note
Nothing in this page shall be interpreted to allow any third party to claim any
association with the Elixir project and the Elixir Team, or to imply any
approval or support by the Elixir project and the Elixir Team for any third
party products, services, or events.
